long ago as this truck they're being
trailed by Bell Gardens PD made a left
we're gonna find out exactly where this
is in the Bell Gardens area we can tell
you that we don't at this point know the
want as though the close call they're
making a right turn going through
traffic at high rates of speed
considering that this is on surface
surface streets this is on Garfield I'm
being told in the Bell Gardens area
we're waiting to find out from police
the want why this person is fleeing from
police as we approach the five o'clock
hour it's 438 here and it's a white
pickup truck looks like a work vehicle
as I've said being pursued you can see
going through traffic oh close call
they're wrong on the wrong side of the
road and obviously very carelessly
driving here Dennis sign he is joining
us now on the line here police
specialist Dennis you were LAPD you know
all about this stuff
what do you make of this well just
another pursuit in the city of La
unusual vehicle as we see this vehicle
traveling on the roads looks like a
residential areas were just tuning into
this
I'm just getting preliminary reports on
this particular pursuit we've had a
number of them lately high-speed
pursuits and this we see the Sheriff's
Department's overhead very dangerous
driving through a stop sign nearly
collided with a car traveling without
the stop so there's a lot of potential
danger in this particular pursuit that's
taking place I believe it's in the
county territory if I'm not mistaken and
now Dennis we understand they're in
Montebello just like that
well Montebello I don't believe has a
chopper they're using the LA County
Sheriff's Department chopper this
vehicle is driving in a very very
dangerous fashion as we see traversing
these streets wrong side a roadway
making
bizarre turns we have one vehicle behind
the black-and-white I don't know how
many other vehicles are in this pursuit
do we know what the vehicle is wanted
for the suspects wanted no in fact we
know that Bell Gardens PD is the lead
agency here now in Montebello but as for
the wants
have yet to figure that one out well it
could be anything it could be right to
another stop sign high rate of speed
that's when they broadside someone and
someone is seriously injured but a very
very hazardous driving in this
particular area especially in a
residential area we've got children
coming out of school people play in the
streets extremely hazardous extremely
dangerous as traveling down these roads
in a heavily populated area residential
area with obviously pedestrians Park
cars driveways etc very very serious the
vehicle the police vehicle is right
behind I don't see another vehicle
normally there's at least one backup
they do have the Sheriff's Department
overhead along with Sky Fox 11 and we'll
see where this ends up hopefully the
authorities will release what this
individuals wanted for but clearly high
speed trying to elude maybe it's a
stowable vehicle robbed it could be
anything sure we have definitely caught
the truck we have it clocked at about 75
miles per hour on as you mentioned a
residential street surface street here
just zooming by unsuspecting drivers
here at you know 4:40 in the afternoon
and what do you make of the vehicle
itself I'm we're calling it a work
vehicle the truck here the size of it
that also adds to the dangerousness of
this pursuit well it could be that he
stole the vehicle that's a very possible
situation with the vehicle is stolen
from me some type of a contractor some
kind of a a worker doing some kind of
construction electrical work that type
of vehicle that he's stolen we assume
it's a stolen vehicle or the individuals
wanted for some other activity that we
don't know about until the authorities
give the information in broadcast what
the vehicles wanted for we could
speculate anything obviously he's
committing felonies by the way he's
driving but what they want for
originally I do not know again a wrong
side of road gonna come up on an
intersection going through that
intersection car stop this individual
said a road again this individual is
really really hot to get away oh that is
a construction type of vehicle so it
wouldn't surprise me if there was a
collision before there's an apprehension
there was a pedestrian in that crosswalk
crossing the street this is very very
dangerous
sure and
Denis of course I've mentioned the time
so far it's it's now 442 of course
approaching the evening commute there's
a lot more people out at this hour of
the day this guy driving wrecklessly 75
miles per hour on surface streets this
big vehicle this white pickup truck here
the busy traffic time that's one of the
elements how do
Bell Gardens PD how do you stop someone
like this in terms of is a pit maneuver
a spike strip well you're not gonna be
into a pit maneuver on those narrow
residential streets that will not work
you've got to have a speed that law
enforcement here's to and the 30 35 mile
an hour speed range they could do a
spike strip but then you've got a pre
deploy again all I see is one vehicle
behind the suspect the other police
vehicle just hit a car please people
just head on the car and now the police
vehicle is still in pursuit now the man
is going into it looks like a parking
lot sir and we should explain to viewers
that are our feet is just a few seconds
ahead of yours so yes that the vehicle
did go through it looked like some sort
of a parking lot fortunately still no
accidents to speak of which is just
really a miracle given the speed and the
recklessness with this with this driver
it looked like there was one situation
where a police vehicle head-on the
vehicle that was stopped it appeared to
be that way just a couple seconds ago
but at the speed he's going he's going
through these stop signs at a very very
high speed someone goes through that
intersection without a stop they're
gonna get broadsided by this person
that's how people get seriously injured
and killed on a broad side collision but
this man is really or individualized MO
with the man or woman but the suspect is
very very intent on getting away but
that vehicle is easy to recognize easy
to spot again he's remaining or so Wow
suspect yes bringing them across
residential area crossed over the median
they're now in the wrong side of traffic
very scary this is Christine Devine
joining you and Marla here as you watch
this pursuit we are in the East LA area
and we understand this driver has been
going in
area which makes you think the person
might know this area the streets they've
been on Beverly Sadler Whittier
Williamson six and Gerhardt at Olympic
Boulevard in East LA again according to
our people kind of going in circles
thoughts on that day yes yes but again
through the residential communities that
are high rate of speed extremely
dangerous it's easy to recognize that
truck easy to recognize the individual
the suspect inside is obviously wanted
for something it could be a stolen
vehicle we can speculate but clearly
trying to elude the officers and again I
only see one vehicle behind along with
the sheriff's chopper overhead so
hopefully they'll be additional units to
assist in this pursuit for that vehicle
the police vehicles right behind they're
not backing off on this individual
it could be wanted for any variety of
felony crimes but whatever he's doing
now he or she the suspect is committing
many felonies by this driving pattern
and we do have the license plate number
which means obviously Bell Gardens PD
does as well so they're running those
plates to find out more right they'll
run the plate see the registered owner
if necessary contact the rest owner if
it's a stolen vehicle
bable offers to be part of why this
individuals fleen we do get commercial
vehicles that are Solon's not uncommon
this is a construction vehicle in
someone's oh look at that move there
Dennis as you're gonna see just it looks
like scraped a couple of vehicles that
were stopped in this four-lane road here
right alongside a golf course there is
la Montebello go oh yes yeah yep yeah he
really really tried to get away and he
can look upon traffic especially at this
hour you're gonna find a lot of traffic
you know we're 446 going on five o'clock
people out of work a lot of people on
the roads
students bicycle riders motorcycle eyes
etc highly congested area this is not a
late night pursuit where you don't have
a lot of traffic you just see there's a
lot of traffic outs and those are all
potential victims of this driver
plowing into them and cost money very
very seriously agree Dennis you're
talking about the open roads versus the
or the very congested roads during this
rush-hour traffic
yeah this driver here has found an open
stretch here to just bring those speeds
up yet again
driving so dangerously and crossing
right now over yellow lines you know he
paralleled the freeway there for a
minute and you can see that he stayed up
I say see because he cuz we don't know
if they he or she but he stayed on these
surface streets like we said kind of
going in the same area of East LA
Monterey right
Garfield now yeah and that's a populated
area especially during the time people
getting out of work so there's a lot of
potential people to be injured by this
individual who is fleeing at an
excessive rate of speed on the
residential areas and commercial areas
in this particular community again I
only see one vehicle behind one black
and white and there's got to be more
joining in especially with this speed in
the hazardous driving this individual is
fleeing from the authorities for
whatever crime the units know what he's
wanted for at least what they initially
put the pursuit out in pursuit of a
suspect for this particular that
particular it wouldn't surprise me of
anything whether it be GTA stole the
vehicle or some other crime that
occurred along the way but you can tell
by this driving pattern this person is
very very intent on getting away but
with that chopper overhead there's no
where this vehicle is going to disappear
and again hopefully the ground units
will be able to apprehend that closely
and and it looks like somebody just flew
out in the back of the vehicle perhaps
I'm thinking about the safety of the
public of course all of these drivers
you know making their way on this
Thursday afternoon whether home on their
way home to work running errands all
innocent people out there so if your PD
when you make the decision to back off
for instance we just had a wild pursuit
end in a terrible crash yesterday in
Lake Balboa involving as many as three
vehicles so we certainly don't want to
have another ending like that no the
officers have to obviously concern
themselves with the protection of the
public you obviously want to end the
perpetrator as a suspect here we have to
these two black-and-whites in pursuit
there'll be a supervisor who will give
direction and follow instead of
activating the red lights and the siren
again as long as we have an air unit
overhead we can follow the safe distance
hopefully that in
we'll slow down but oftentimes they
don't but if they do slow down that
gives the public error safety and that
area of safety is what we're looking for
it the same thing apprehend this person
who's yes will be trying to flee and
driving in a careless reckless manner
but the officers will make that call and
the supervisor will be observing and
obviously oftentimes the supervisor will
intercede because the officers that are
in pursuit are intent on apprehend this
individual high-speed pursuit their
Adrenaline's pumping a supervisor looks
at this and says too hazardous to many
problems let's back off let's continue
observing let's continue with the air
operation follow the safe distance and
they will pursue but at a safer distance
without this without the siren red light
curious turn there Dennis he had just
passed the 10 freeway a few minutes ago
going at some speeds up to 90 miles an
hour look at these these turns it's
amazing he's able to keep control of
that vehicle and hasn't crashed into
another vehicle as you watch this
pursuit now more on surfacey streets did
pass the freeway the 10 freeway could
have gotten on the freeway perhaps chose
to stay on surface streets does it lead
you to believe Dennis the suspect knows
this area Monterey Park East LA well in
addition to maybe knowing the area
there's a concern you get on the freeway
and the freeway obviously at this
particular hour coming up on five
o'clock a lot of traffic a lot of
congestion you can't go anywhere so on a
freeway it would be preferable if you're
a person in pursuit will try and get
away from the authorities to stay an
area where you can continue moving and
this particular area we see this
individual the suspects finding open
roads where you don't have a lot of
congestion but again the freeway at this
hour is pretty congested both going
north south east and west so they're
probably white we've seen so many near
misses and that was just another one
right through a major intersection
they're now in the Alhambra area as we
get a closer look at the suspect you can
see it has the window down just just a
little bit there and just again blowing
through intersection after intersection
with countless near misses well it looks
like you may have tapped that last car
whether you went through the
intersection
we have tapped the left career as that
vehicle was trying to get out of his way
again the black and white behind I don't
know if the lights are activated but the
black one is definitely trying to stay
up with them and fortunately we do have
a chopper overhead
I saw the sheriff's chopper
Dennis we just watch for the first time
this motorists come across some some
pedestrians in crosswalks they're very
scary to see that the streets that we're
looking at here in the Alhambra area
have been Garfield mission State Main
streets if you know this area this is
where the suspect is at this point in
time that that was very scary because
there were two crosswalks where you had
different pedestrians and luckily nobody
got hurt there I mean he flew through so
fast and didn't even have a chance to
you know run or get out of the way if
they needed to well that's the concern
about the distance cars when you have
heavy traffic like this there's that
hazard that occurs he goes from
residential to commercial now it looks
like maybe back on into a residential
area he keeps on transferring back and
forth where you've got hazards in both
areas but he's driving aimlessly just
trying to find a spot maybe the bail
it's not unusual as we know they bail
from the vehicle this is a hard vehicle
to hide hard beautiful conceal and those
units that were behind I see them
following me while they look like
they're slipping back well right now
we're following him along northbound
Atlantic in Alhambra as we can now see a
clear shot of the sheriff's helicopter
flying above and that's what's going to
keep the eye this sheriff's unit will
keep an eye on that vehicle continued
with that pursuit if the ground units do
back off there we go LA County Sheriff's
Department choppers overhead they worked
in coordination with smaller cities that
don't have air operations I don't know
if that's that he does have an air
operation alhambra but nevertheless the
sheriff's will assist along with other
agencies again we're going to find crazy
driving turns against red light they're
very very happy
this person has wanted for something
probably more than stolen vehicle and
that's why they're trying to flee but
with a chopper overhead
gonna get you far and the rate of speed
if they've been going at 70 miles per
hour at times clearly trying to avoid
authorities but in that very fairly
large vehicle but I am surprised at this
hour coming up at 5 o'clock that you
have these open stretches but look at
what the driver does to get around
somebody who gets in his way
that of course is the very scary part
indeed death death desperate moves by
this into these are desperate moves
maneuvers to try and elude the police
maybe he knows maybe he does not Rasheed
a suspect whether there's a chopper
overhead but the chopper overhead you're
not going to get anywhere you're just
gonna continue fleeing and in imperiling
a lot of people a lot of hazards for the
general public and motoring public and
as we see wrong side of the double
yellow mines he's doing or she I keep on
referring to he or she because we know
most the time is the heat but this
suspect is driving in a totally careless
reckless manner and this will compound
the charges against the individual once
they're apprehended and now this is the
area San Marino now South Pasadena in
fact and these are very quiet
residential communities well maintained
quiet residential communities not a lot
of crime not a lot of violence this is
obviously unusual for these
neighborhoods as we see these quiet
residential streets but this individual
they know the area or not they are
desperate to flee desperate to evade
again we do have a chopper overhead
along with the media choppers and they
do communicate and they work with law
enforcement so you've got more than the
helicopter eyes overhead to a freeway it
looks like 110 here's at 110 South and
South Pasadena so this is the first time
that we've seen since we've started
covering this pursuit in the last 15
minutes although it's been underway for
at least 30 minutes so far now the the
driver is cruising along on the
southbound 110 well there will be
congestion gonna come in did a lot of
congestion here because this car is
going to now head towards the downtown
area and I'm gonna imagine downtown
about 5 p.m. here we should also note
our viewers we are this is an early
edition of Fox 11 5:00 p.m. news
and as we head towards five o'clock here
this driver it now on the freeway it'll
be interesting to see as we get a wider
shot here or actually gets onto the
freeway
what kind of congestion and where you'll
start to see a backup thoughts on that
Dennis well what we are will find is a
lot of congestion on that freeway at
this particular hour that is not unusual
at this time to have that situation take
place so it's not unusual I've driven
that freeway as you have for many years
they'll be coming into a lot of
blockages we get closer to downtown area
well so far has not hit that congestion
you know just yet which is which is a
rarity as all of us know but as I say
that it looks like slowing down a little
bit oh maybe getting off just like that
back onto surface streets yes well maybe
saw congestion ahead and congestion
ahead means let's take a detour back to
now he'll be getting our CC into the Los
Angeles City area now you'll find la
fille do jump in
is this violator this trap this traffic
violator suspect again through another
stop sign onto additional residential
streets LAPD should be joining this
along with the LAPD chopper and that
will take place shortly so this also
this all started in in Bell Gardens the
lead agency is Bell Gardens at this
point you mentioned blowing through
another intersection near misses left
and right here in in the middle lane you
mentioned that LAPD met and might now
join in this pursuit of this white
pickup truck some sort of a work vehicle
the wat we still are working to find out
normally when they enter a jurisdiction
that has the resources that jurisdiction
will then take over the pursuits on the
freeway
CHP takes over this is now in the city
of LA so it's not uncommon for LAPD air
units operate along with ground units
from the division in addition to Traffic
Division but they want to limit the
number of units in pursuit they want to
maintain control and ultimately the
safety of the motoring pedestrian is the
community that's paramount
they don't want anyone getting injured
and in addition to suspect now we see a
black and white in the opposite
direction I don't know what agency
that's from it was too quick of a shot
but as we see this pursuits continuing
and not stopping at stop signs very
dangerous very hazardous and just going
any which way that the suspect feels is
appropriate trying to evade traffic
evade the police and avoid traffic so
they decrease and avoid traffic that's
exactly what this person is trying to do
at this particular time
Dennis we should note the new area that
he has been driving in is Highland Park
on Figueroa and Piedmont going at speeds
of up to 80 miles per hour you mentioned
the different jurisdictions perhaps
taking over he's been in Monterey Park
LAPD jurisdiction and a sheriff's
helicopter flying overhead
he really is making some moves in some
different communities you know we think
of CHP handling the ones on the freeway
but but on the surface street when you
go into different communities who stays
with that pursued and who joins in when
well you've got the primary unit
initiate the pursuit and they obviously
have the information of what originally
occurred what prompted the pursuit in
the first place so they will remain but
as far as the other units with the other
cities they will normally back off in
the jurisdiction Los Angeles or LA
County sheriff's books they have a lot
of resources they will take over the
pursuit because it's in their
jurisdiction now they're responsible for
what occurs an incident occurs a
collision occurs whatever that agency in
this computer case LAPD will handle that
so LAPD it's not uncommon for them to
take over the pursuit again we have a
lot more resources than the other
agencies but that other agency is the
initial pursuit pursuing agencies they
have all the information what started
this why did this occur and now it's
apprehend the individual so they will
assist in resources to apprehend and
this is the situation basically run out
of gas crash surrender bail from the
vehicle there there's a few options that
the individual fleen can take and the
law enforcement we utilize whatever
procedure is reasonable and prudent to
apprehend individual that's the bottom
line
apprehend the suspect make a safe
conclusion take the vehicle into custody
impound the vehicle and work
the original agency to find exactly what
this person yes because LAPD now sees
this vehicle fleeing they have no idea
other than the communications have been
broadcast about the pursuit but now it's
not uncommon for LAPD to take over well
I don't know where the units are but
they should do that to this shortly oh
my gosh
just just blew through the train
crossing the actual trains approaching
right Dennis oh did you see the record
again right through the gate right
through the gate yeah if you think
moments if they're just the timing that
he went through those gates those those
training that train guard if he'd waited
any that train was coming right up on
him why right wow that was a well well
that that person is very very lucky you
didn't get to hit by that train so that
was just a few seconds so that person
one you know goes to the gayest Li and
this was just a couple seconds that
train approached well a person is very
lucky very lucky to have avoided that
collision with the train now that it's
just a minute past five o'clock on this
Thursday evening we do want to
officially welcome you into the Fox
eleven five o'clock news I'm Marla
taya's alongside Christine Devine I'm
here in for Alex Michaelson who's on
special assignment this evening we have
Dennison police specialists on the line
helping us out with this police pursuit
that's been underway for at least thirty
minutes so far the lead agency here is
Bell Gardens and as you can see from
this chopper shot from Skyfall Cup truck
some sort of a work vehicle that is
being pursued yes let me ask you this
question with a move like we saw with
the train there right that encourage law
enforcement to go into tracking mode
because the the the dangerous concept of
this pursuit just kind of changed the
game right there when you saw that move
well that'll be a call by a supervisor
if they decide to do that again at the
station the watch commander is watching
this on the monitor they do monitor
local news broadcast so I'm sure the
divisional stations are watching this
monitoring this communicating with the
supervisor that's going to be in the
field in this particular utility vehicle
the driving is extremely hazardous they
may go into a tracking mode and if they
do then we still have the area in
operation overhead one of the issues
with the tracking
there's no warning to the motorists of
this vehicle utility goes approaching
and the careless reckless manner at
least we have the siren and red lights
people who are aware something's
happening but there was just the vehicle
driving in a very very high-speed
careless manner people have no idea
what's going on so yeah here what we see
them on the wrong side of the roadway
the public is not aware they look like a
traffic rather would in fact it's a
clean felon so there is some advantage
but the responsibility is for the safety
of the public so oftentimes they will go
into a tracking mode as long as you've
got an air your overhead tracking mode
is successful and very very safe for the
public but when you've got those
vehicles going code three multiple
police vehicles going code three dual
purpose of informing the public as well
as trying to apprehend individual it
looks like he's slowing down a bit again
in another with other residential area
suspect is appears to be slowing down
from the high speeds that the suspect
was driving in previously so maybe the
tracking mode is helpful if we are in a
tracking look this time I don't see a
unit close behind yeah we just saw one
there with the lights off okay there we
go but - we do have that that's not LAPD
that unit is not LAPD that's one of the
other communities I look at the blue
stripe or you know possibly it could be
and as you assess that situation there
of who's actually in that tracking mode
we have an answer finally that we can
tell you this is a grand theft auto
suspects okay
so some construction worker was doing
work and this individual stole the
vehicle with all the equipment and
that's what we have a utility vehicle
used by a construction person and
obviously trying to flee with the
vehicle so that is what occurred it's a
GTA was there an armed takeover was the
vehicle parked with a thieves and a lot
of those questions have to be answered
but now we know this is a stolen vehicle
that's obviously stolen from a
contractor a construction worker with
all the tools on that utility vehicle
that's what we're faced with now you
think of that that is somebody's you
know
hood right there that is their career
those are the tools of the trade the
tools that they need to do their job and
we're seeing now this vehicle getting
back onto the freeway yet again after
being in the South Pasadena area so the
pursuit now back on to a California
freeway now what are we gonna go on the
one tan off and it looks like he's now
I've got surface street yep get alright
that was really quick I don't know it's
one of those things Dennis as you say Oh
as he is now going to weave his way
through literally threading a needle
yeah it seemed well once he sees
congestion freeway again he decides to
get off and with that when I say that
now he's getting back on and it's very
fashion Marla did you see that moon
they're cutting some cars off right
there okay he was on the southbound 110
then off at Avenue 52 back onto the
freeway here Dennis a wild pursuit
indeed and as we talked about this being
grand theft I feel for the person who
lost their business truck and I probably
wanted this pursuit wanting this truck
back in one piece now the question is
how did he get that vehicle where to get
the keys did he rob the person who owns
that truck and get the keys and steal
vehicle did he use a weapon how did he
actually get possession of the vehicle
how to get the key or did he Hotwire a a
lot of questions have to be answered how
we obtained that particular vehicle
that's all part and parcel was it taken
in a robbery was it just parked with the
keys in it so those questions have to be
answered but nevertheless we know it's a
construction vehicle utility vehicle
used by a person to use that for their
livelihood on this individual who
explained in that particular vehicle
doesn't really have a lot of care or
concern for the general public and just
trying to escape as well as intentioned
as that is trying to escape but put
everybody's life in peril as he or she
the suspect continues to plea the
authorities that are obviously pursuing
whether we're in tracking mode now we're
on the freeway
I don't know this individual we made on
the freeway seems the suspect soon as
they in the counter traffic they take
off back to an area where they don't
have a lot of traffic because once you
locked in the traffic there's nowhere to
go sharing up so now will looks like
we're off on the inners junction maybe
just an off-ramp right from the
northbound 110 there and we do
understand that LAPD is deciding to back
off because of the public safety risk
there so you may be right now that they
will just revert to tracking mode as we
see plenty of black and whites here
lining the street well this is the time
that they may decide to utilize the
spike strip the speeds are too fast the
roads are too narrow for any other
procedure looks like they're out there
stop
while observing as individuals
continuing it looks like on the wrong
side definitely wrong side mm-hmm well
that's a scary move their cars
perhaps able to pull over a little bit
as they see what's coming in front of
them the streets he's been on Arroyo Oro
Verde South Pasadena Avenue now back
into traffic oh boy a bicyclists there
you think of the people that are
pedestrians and bicyclists at this hour
luckily nobody's been hurt back now on
more narrow street and we're in the work
boulevard now maybe it's hard to keep
track of the different streets because
you've been moving so quickly and making
so many very dangerous turns but one
thing sir this is a residential area but
what this operator doing the suspect is
they're trying to get the street that
does not have a lot of traffic and just
trying to continue on the move which
wouldn't surprise me if they decide to
find an area to bail leave the vehicle
and take off on foot that's not uncommon
in this type of situation when you get
to a residential you have opportunity to
do that so that might be the course of
action but the individuals thinking how
am I going to escape the police are
behind me I don't know if they know
there's chopper overhead but the fact is
they're going to keep eyes on it and
they'll continue to follow at a safe
distance if the pursuit itself the red
light and siren poetry pursuit has now
been reduced to tracking the units are
still gonna be in that area and as soon
as the air unit reports the vehicle to
stop the individuals out running then
they will apprehend as soon as possible
what you
that converge on that area so it's not
that they neglected to pursue us they've
just concerned themselves with public
facie the general public and that we're
not heavily populated residential area
all those streets with vehicles parked
people in their homes at this particular
hour of 509 people coming home from work
students coming home from school so it's
a very very populated area and a lot of
homes a lot of people a lot of potential
victims this individual may be trying to
find a place to bail with not uncommon
as we've seen many pursuits they leave
the vehicle and take off on foot
yeah South Pasadena Avenue the 64 was
near Arroyo Verde Road
Dennis you and I covered a pursuit last
night yeah the suspects bailed there
were three in one vehicle they took off
running in a residential area where it
was dark at night two of them were
caught for sure we saw that when we were
still on Fox 11 News so they didn't
really get far we also had a percent
yesterday where the person bailed and
police were not nearby with their
vehicle so the person tried to you know
put their backpack on ditch the car in a
gas station and tried to walk down the
street as if they blended in with the
public that person was caught as well so
they thought of them getting away we see
it all too often where they they they
don't get away but the concern is might
they run to someone's home might they
try to take another vehicle we've seen
that happen as well so how this plays
out it varies from pursuit to pursuit
Dennis exactly and you know they take a
hostage
they take a hostage they take the
hostage in the vehicle there's all types
of public possibilities if they stole
the vehicle that's a felony
if they've committed an armed robbery if
they've injured someone in an armed
robbery if they break into a home once
they get on foot there's no telling what
they'll do it depends on what they're
wanted for if they've been to state
prison if they don't want to go back a
lot of variables and they all act
different weight depends on what they've
done in the criminal justice system and
how they perform after that so if
there's just a straight GPA normally
they'll surrender their will peacefully
go to court etc but if an individual's
been to state prison and they don't want
to go back they'll do anything and
everything including taking hostages so
when you've got them clean the vehicle
going to the heavily populated area
there's no telling what they'll do the
criminal element that
does that they have really no concern
for the general public women children
etc so they've been all kinds of
scenarios over the years in this
particular case well we know is we have
a dta a utility vehicle library with an
individual off that vehicle they report
to the authorities authorities somehow
saw the vehicle went into pursuit and
now we're at that stage so the person
could pull over stop surrender get out
run out of gas that's always a
possibility yeah what this individual
just seems to continue to the max trying
to elude trying to escape trying to get
away and with that your unit overhead as
we see here on Fox 11 it's a clear sight
and that opportunity for that air unit
to apprehend with that activity
observing every incident every movements
every stop so you know there's really no
way that this individual is going to be
able to flee once they leave the vehicle
then they'll be a foot pursuit or the
individual surrender either way this is
the Pasadena area and it looks like the
suspect is getting on to is the 134 the
210 here
now another freeway pursuit portion of
it is under way he was just on the 134
was just on Colorado Boulevard Melrose
Avenue in the very heavily populated
area of Pasadena picking up speeds we've
seen him reach speeds of 90 miles per
hour even on surface streets so here he
goes on the freeway and it looks like
he's now veering to the right
sticking with with the 134 and 134 we go
on Easter Western we know we will find
out for you but we understand that there
is heavy traffic ahead as we look at
this freeway pursuit now at 513 here in
Los Angeles
I wouldn't want to be on the freeway at
5 o'clock because that's rush hour
traffic and you can imagine going either
direction on the 134 you're going to hit
some traffic eventually our team is
telling us that there is indeed heavy
traffic ahead we have seen this driver
though get off onto the surface streets
beyond the freeway for for just uh okay
go to ten West now okay
210 West we know what to do tell
you come to the 605 in that area nothing
but gridlock all the way through the 210
freeway it's traditional as you come up
on the 210 you will find a lot there's
there's movement at this particular time
but that 210 really backs up from the
134 and as we get a closer look the
sense of its here it looks like it is a
man there a male behind the wheel the
windows cracked it looks like he's got a
bald head
from this perspective still blowing
through traffic on the westbound 210
this grand theft auto suspect who has
been eluding officers for at least 30
minutes so far this all started in Bell
Gardens now making its way into the
Pasadena area on the 134 now westbound
210 and reaching speeds right now of up
to 80 miles per hour yeah he's a
security has a clear path but it's not
gonna last that long because as we know
that freeway jams up real quick right
now this individual has a pretty clear
sale but it's not going to remain that
way this is a workday a lot of folks
coming home from work
we know that freeways gonna get
congested real quick so that at that
particular time the suspect will
probably exit the pre-released that's
been the trend yeah freeway and wouldn't
be surprised if we saw the CHP now enter
this pursuit well you might be speaking
too soon because it looks like he's
exiting the freeway yet again I mean he
really hasn't given CHP time to jump on
this pursuit cuz he hasn't been on the
freeway but four and maybe a couple
exits at max now he's back on two
surface streets yet again yeah well I
would speculate that we've got traffic
ahead and that's what got him off the
freeway he does not want to get caught
up in traffic trying to avoid that
opportunity wait I spoke too soon back
on the 210 right the other direction
going the other direction okay so what
was these so here we go it's continuing
again this type of driving there's no
way that you can put out a spike strip
they're not going to do a spike strip on
a freeway with multiple vehicles so
they will be following our unit overhead
sky Fox overhead runs out of gas
hopefully quickly bring this to an end
to not jeopardize the safety of the
general public which is obviously
paramount to us in law enforcement and
just for your fellow citizens you don't
want to see them get involved in the
collision with a utility vehicle of this
size that could cause some major damage
major injuries but now it looks like
again trying to find a freeway that
doesn't have a lot of traffic and to
accelerate try to elude but it doesn't
happen because again you've got an air
unit over you which way you go doesn't
matter who's going east west north to
south that area that's not going to
abandon this pursuit while the tracking
mode takes place that's not happening
with the air unit Dennis he was on the
eastbound 210 looks like he's taking
Seiko Mountain exit yet again getting
off the freeway we'll try to continue to
watch this pursuit as we saw it get
increasingly dangerous on surface
streets we want to show you some video
from earlier in the pursuit okay we're
gonna stay with alive at the moment then
the suspect getting off the freeway
again going through that stop sign
they're back on surface streets now so
the bigger picture here we are showing
some previous incidences when this
suspect I was going to say a near miss
but in fact hit sideswiped one of the
vehicles there as he made his way
through a jammed intersection there
we've seen plenty of near misses he
barreled through a crossing guard train
nearly hit him at one point we've seen
him blow by pedestrians unsuspecting
pedestrians in crosswalks and it's been
it's been intense and it makes you
anxious to watch this this grand theft
auto suspect continuing to get away from
from authorities but Dennis you say it's
only a matter of time it is it looks
like we got CHP behind him at this time
it looks like there's a CHP unit that is
now primary behind the suspect vehicle a
utility vehicle looking at that vehicle
a black point it look like the CHP
vehicle
Lincoln Avenue in Pasadena we were
watching this pursuit again now on
surface streets but Dennis you say CHP
with CHP stay on that pursuit even
though it's going on the freeways office
well back and forth back and forth on
the freeway that gives them the
jurisdiction again the California Court
has jurisdiction statewide all the
cities of mr. Valdez all the County CHP
has jurisdiction statewide on all the
roads so there's no jurisdictional
boundary for CH creme they have it
everywhere in the state of California so
they can do it on the surface street LA
County whatever the case may be this
particular case the individual the
suspects going back and forth freeway
service trees Oh Dennis we want to
interrupt there's just been an accident
involving this vehicle at an
intersection the white truck has stopped
in the mid of the middle of the
intersection another vehicle was hit at
quite a high rate of speed morally and
we can see the black and whites there in
the intersection so they're there now
and so this is where it gets even more
intense because it's it comes down to if
they the suspect will listen to the
commands and show is me once and get out
of the vehicle and then it also is this
person armed now the question is we see
the incident of the impact we see the
Chile vehicle disabled and now I see one
CHP officer he needs to get some backup
real quick apparently at this particular
time was juncture we've got one CHP
officer and he may be a motor officer
Dennis he's getting out of the vehicle
he is complying with commands to get out
of that vehicle his arms spread open
wide they're about to get on the ground
it's okay
arms on his head now he is complying you
have to think of those innocent people
who are behind that vehicle as they
watch this play out with law enforcement
there and their guns trained at this
suspect here the good news is he seems
to be listening he doesn't seem to be
agitated he's not moving around he has
his hands on his head right now and we
will watch as this plays out with the
commands by the officer Marla and the
CHP officer with his gun drawn obviously
as he's giving the suspect commands this
is at the intersection by the way in
Pasadena at Orange Grove and
Holly where this pursuit came to a
crashing and it is good to see that the
suspect is complying so far anyway
Joyce Foley this little remained of the
CHP officer needs to get a backup we
need to have additional response this
seems not going to take that suspect
into custody by himself that the suspect
decides to flee on foot now we got a
foot pursuit with one officer and that's
not the safest thing so hopefully
there's units responding quickly to the
scene to backup this officer a death
again you got people in the other
vehicle we got hit rescue there sir
because like the airbag yeah it looks
like the airbag went off in there so we
need to get emergency vehicles there to
render aid and that was a broadside
incident so that impact will be on the
driver this individual is complying but
I've got concerns for that officer all
by himself here we go there's some
backup right now Dennis so he has some
backup there there you go okay three
officers now there so he has the burden
that he needs a suspect now on his knees
so he is completely complying
now lying there on the ground there
there is that concern as you said for
those vehicles behind the suspect
vehicle right there I'm not sure why the
white car stopped there perhaps to be a
witness but the black car that was hit
that was struck you see those airbags
I've not seen any movement from that
vehicle maybe it's somebody just staying
there to be safe hopefully they're not
too badly hurt but that's gonna be
something to watch here all right
suspect now being taken into custody
vehicle being cleared so now we've got
backup you'll be taken to custody then
the next thing they want to get to that
vehicle that's a SUV get that driver
empty medical treatment to hopefully get
that driver out the vehicle
we're watching somebody there at the
driver's side I looks to me like an
innocent person who are somebody who is
in perhaps another car or on Good
Samaritan came correct came over to
check on that driver now you have law
enforcement they're also looking in the
window to see the status of that person
or people in that car now they're going
to render aid we'll have a lot of units
respond now there'll be a number of
officers they want to give assistance to
that operator if there's a passenger in
that vehicle we want to get them medical
as quickly as possible looks like that
officer in the 10 yo that's a CHP
motorcycle officer who was operating in
a vehicle but that was the original
officer that made the initial stop and
now we've got additional units
responding from other agencies so
there'll be assistance that intersection
can be locked down for a while whatever
intersection that is it's at the on ramp
of the 210 we know what location that is
it's it's orange grove and Holley right
above the 210 so orange grove and
Holly's going to be locked down for a
while I'll go get the witness
information those render aid to those
that are injured and figured out from
there like then you've got multiple
jurisdictions here yeah we do the fire
department they're on the scene so
quickly there they can render aid and
then it's hard to tell because the
passenger door is open if there's a
passenger who's been injured as well or
just the driver or if the driver's side
door is disabled yeah which could be the
case but we certainly have that right
that vehicle is not injured too badly
Dennis an impact was on the driver's
side those airbags are plated so
hopefully the driver is gonna be okay
but they'll render a get that driver to
the hospital if necessary probably so
with that impact on the driver's side
that's a tremendous impact that took
place and they're going to use the Jaws
of Life to open that side of the vehicle
but the paramedics are there the fire
department's there and they'll get that
taken care of real quick I don't see
what agency what the department is there
with the fire department but there's
definitely fire paramedics and now CHP
and other law enforcement agencies so
basically the suspects in custody
they're going to render aid to those
innocent people and again we have a
situation a stolen vehicle individual
trying to flee and broadsides an
innocent person driving down the road
and probably coming home from work and
now their cars destroyed and they've
suffered some medical trauma because of
this situation well we can't call you
that it is Pasadena Fire Department
they're on-scene rendering aid and and
Dennis to your point this is precisely
what we do not want to see we don't want
a pursuit to have to end in this manner
that's great that the the suspect is in
custody but to see this and
and this situation unfold before our
eyes this is not what we want to see no
now this person has a family that you
know there's going to be worried they're
going to be at the hospital and all the
concerns this is a total innocent
individual in a late-model vehicle gets
broadsided by an individual steals
utility truck and broadsides this
vehicle injures this person destroys the
car I mean this is a tragedy that occurs
when someone's in trying to elude the
police and that's exactly what happened
in this case so the individual suspect
is taking the custody doesn't appear to
have an injuries the innocent person in
that vehicle is obviously injured and
they're going to render it because you
get broadsided you're gonna suffer some
kind of injury but they're gonna use the
Jaws of Life to open up that side of the
car
the fire department paramedics are
treating that individual at this time
apparently hopefully there's only one
person in that car if there's more than
one person so under render aid but
they're trying to get that side of that
car open to extricate that person from
the car this is obviously what the fire
department does best they got the tool
the apparatus can make that happen the
jaws of life will be utilized to open up
that driver's side and that's what you
see happening now along with the
paramedics on the inside treating that
individual again your seat belted in the
car you can't really move and the left
side of your body has been crushed by
the impact of that utility vehicle into
your vehicle so it's very serious for
that innocent person who just at the
wrong place at the wrong time that ends
up coming up the victim of this
situation and Dennis the speeds were
about 50 miles per hour when this
happened we have a tighter shot now here
of the fire department at work and such
respect for those firefighters those
trained paramedics who come in to to
render aid it's heartbreaking to see
it's it's very sad to see we can only
pray for this person who's in this
vehicle whose day has been altered so
drastically by that pursuit now we just
saw the impact on the replay they just
showed the impact of that car being
broadside and then coming to rest so
that was a tremendous impact I rate
speed impact for the individual who had
no idea what was happening these are one
of the situations that I refer to when a
suspect clean and there's no light siren
and individual driving down the road had
no idea that the truck was going to bear
through that red light we had no idea
there was a pursuit they didn't hear a
siren in the vehicle was not an
activated emergency that that's one of
the problems when you go into a tracking
mode is you don't warm the public you're
not alerting the public hopefully the
subject will slow down this particular
case we see this tragic situation
hopefully this drive will be okay but it
will not be surprised if there's some
serious injuries as a result of this
collision and that is a catch-22 of the
tracking mode mode simply because they
are in that mode to protect the public
but then as you point out then the
drivers remain unsuspecting and and have
no forewarning that that is coming their
way
yeah they're going through a green light
thinking about what am I gonna make for
dinner the family and all of a sudden
this tragedy occurs this is really
heartbreaking yeah we just had the
replay there where you saw how that
happened right there at that
intersection above the 210 over past
there an innocent driver struck by this
vehicle as we watch this pursuit it's a
private community yeah it's surprising
to me that it didn't happen earlier
because of the way this guy was driving
and making so many erratic turns the
fire department's still there on the
scene hard to tell if there are more
people on board in that vehicle because
they're working there in the back seat
as well or if it's just the driver that
they're working on that would be that
would be curious again they do have the
jaws of life that opened up the driver's
side of the vehicle they want to get
that door open they want to remove that
driver I don't know why they can't take
the driver out the pastor sighs I'm not
going to second-guess what they're
trying to do is open that vehicle up so
they can extricate that driver and if
there's any passengers that could be
passing in the back seat I'm sure when
you get broadsided to that degree injury
to this driver and you don't know if
this passengers or not in addition to
the driver but they're saying some kind
of a again the jaws of life of work they
opened up the vehicle they're going to
hope to get that driver or any passes
out as quickly as possible well what
happens is when that side caves in that
side caves in and now you're going to be
crushed with the body of the car and
that's what they use the jaws of life
for to remove that you're in the seat
belt and now the car
basically crunches you and so you've got
to open this up in order to extricate to
get that person the driver out of that
vehicle and that's what they're doing
with the jaws of life trying to open
that car you got some steel frame beans
in the construction of the vehicle and
it's supposed to expand the impact let's
see what happened with this impact
airbags inflate so you're still stuck
there on a seat belt behind that wheel
and Dennis we are hearing that there is
just one person in this vehicle and by
all accounts this person is conscious
and breathing and they're in the process
of actually cutting off those those
vehicle doors now so that that is good
news yes yes I'm sure there'll be a lot
of bruises but their cars now destroyed
they're injured and the individual who
had utility vehicle owner of that
vehicle is now without a vehicle and
suspect goes to jail well here comes the
stretcher so it that potentially
indicates that soon enough they will be
able to get this the driver of this
vehicle out and to a hospital sooner
than later well Pasadena has some great
facilities medical facilities again a
fire department personnel paramedics do
a great job and they were there in just
a couple minutes so commendation to the
Pasadena Fire folks they did a great job
with this and hopefully this person will
recover the victim of this incident
again totally innocent driving down the
street going through a green light
broadside and now we see the tragedy
that takes place Dennis let me ask you
this as a sergeant with the LAPD who
spent many years in the department
perhaps covered your fair share of
pursuits you've been an analyst for us
for many years as well and we've done so
many of these pursuits together when you
see an ending like this I'm wonderful
some of the public are thinking why
perhaps didn't they stop the pursuit in
some fashion
well what do you do if you stop the
pursuit to terminate the pursuit what
about the individual holds a utility
truck that's his livelihood that's what
he uses to support his wife and children
just let's cry and continue to go
without the consequences they want to
apprehend the vehicle how
people has this individual stole the
vehicle from I mean obviously we see a
tragic collision that occurs as a result
of this we saw the individual in the
truck that went right through the
railroad barricade as a train seconds
later cross that particular path we
don't know we don't know but the fact is
if you don't pursue people and you just
let everyone steal whatever they want or
murder whoever they want you don't have
a civilized society so we've got rules
we got laws they got possession we got
jobs we earn an income we support our
families in this particular situation
you've got a suspect that stole the
vehicle we know that was confirmed as a
stolen vehicle and we don't know
whatever else or how many times this
suspect has been involved in criminal
justice system and then you got this
sweet innocent person it gets broadsided
I mean if you stop the pursuit you say
okay you can steal anything commit
robbery rape murder burglary whatever
and there's no consequences you can't
come to a lawless society so this is one
of the tragedies that occurs when you
have a pursuit these tragedies occur the
pursuits we cover here on Fox 11 we
cover a lot of them sell them does it
happen like this we have an innocent
person but this is ultimate sad
situation that occurs when you have that
and I've investigated before where
people have died as a result of the
collision so it goes from one extreme to
the other this individual who stole the
vehicle obviously successfully committed
the crime and now will go to jail to
suffer the consequences but the family
of this survivor has to go to the grief
of the pain of agony taking care of
their loved one who's a victim of this
pursuit so when they do back off they do
tracking they do all types of things but
the bottom line is you got suspects that
steal that loot that rape that kill and
you just can't say well because of this
we're not going to pursue otherwise
it'll be totally out of control so it's
a sad commentary but that's why they
have the tracking mode in this
particular case the suspect didn't care
who or what he did and we see the
consequences of the result so Dennis
prayers for this driver here as we said
earlier one person a driver conscious
and breathing the paramedics working so
hard there the part about working so
hard there to be of service to this
motorist
so talk about the suspect then what kind
of charges now that we have this
accident besides all of the charges you
think they come with a pursuit what now
is this this person who stole that white
truck they're also facing because of the
accident
well there's gt8 to begin with and then
there's the pursuit felony evading so
you've got felonies involved and then
you've got this situation depending on
the condition of this motorist this
could be a young student this could be a
man a woman it could be anyone behind
that we do not know the driver that we
don't know what the driver did was a
driver a member of the clergy was the
driver married with children we do not
know but the bottom line is you got an
honest citizen who's in the vehicle who
gets injured and hopefully these are
minor injuries but we see how long it's
taken to get this individual out of the
vehicle how they're using the equipment
to try and remove the door so they can
extricate that particular person that
one driver reports you know the person
the vehicle the trauma they're going to
go through the hospitalization are going
to go through there's any broken bones
or anything so there's a lot of
consequences that play into the charges
that are going to be currently filed
against this individual and I would not
be surprised if the suspect that was
fleeing on utility vehicle is been to
jail has been to prison this doesn't
seem to be the first time that they were
involved in this type of crime normally
you get stopped you surrender you bail
this individual the driving pattern was
horrendous and the steal that vehicle
was the beginning of a tragic situation
it ended up in this particular fashion
so there'll be a lot of charges a lot of
felony charges this is the kind of
situation you go to state prison you
spend some time in state prison maybe
rehabilitate yourself but I feel sorry
for the victim's family as far as the
suspect I'm sure that suspects been
through it before just speculating on
the way the driving pattern went and how
this whole situation transpired well
they've just made great progress there
the firefighter is able to literally
take off the whole side panel on the
driver's side so now that's a huge gap a
huge opening to be able to get their
patients this innocent driver here this
motorist who we do understand to be
conscious and breathing the stretchers
they're waiting the it's a precarious
situation of course because they have to
make sure that they stay
this victim while working their way
through the wreckage exactly.the and
this person's family you know is
wondering where's my loved one why
aren't they here why aren't they home is
supposed to be homeless at five o'clock
what's the delay now you know the
vehicles that's total that maybe it will
not be able to be repaired so that
vehicle is total because they're
probably making payments on it so a lot
of consequences for this innocent
individual gets broadsided by the
utility vehicle that was stolen by the
individual the suspect I mean this is
how you see real tragedy occurred to a
family that was doing everything right
pay their taxes pay their bills does
everything right and as a consequence of
an individual that stole the vehicle and
plows into this vehicle to a midsize red
light these are the real tragedies that
the general public doesn't see live as
we seen here on eleven I've lived this
for over 50 years from my law
enforcement career it's tragic it really
brings tears to your eyes to see the
consequence of this individuals can have
to do when they go to the hospital you
weren't sure when the family's going to
be alerted by the police by the hospital
personnel I mean this is the whole
tragic gonna take its place now with
what they're gonna have to go through
and to put them on that back court and
that transport them to the local
hospital there's a whole tragedy is now
going to unveil and a hassle but they're
going to have to go through this issue
to go to court this and that the other
there's a whole next scenario it's going
to take place as we see happening but
this individuals going to be on the
backboard put on the gurney thinks of a
hospital whatever kind of injury
you get broadsided and you're now
crushed in that car
because of the way that car came in from
that impact that was a tremendous impact
they're going to sustain some injuries
they wouldn't bother I would not be
surprised they had some major broken
bones a t-bone this is important to
recall at a high rate of speed and right
into the side of that car and if this
was a sports park this was the car that
didn't have that body that this vehicle
has more severe injuries it could be
fatal injuries but in this particular
case fortunately the person that they're
extricated right now will be conscious
go to the hospital and I would not be
surprised again if we've got a victim
with broken bones
won't be able to work whatever yeah
we're looking now the person is out of
the vehicle we're keeping our picture
wide at this moment we don't know if
it's a man or a woman we do know it was
one person conscious and breathing is
what we had heard so firefighters making
good work of getting that vehicle
basically torn apart with those jaws to
try to get to that person and get them
into an ambulance so they're making them
move now to get that person over to the
ambulance
this location is Orange Grove in Hawley
above the t-ten overpass there and it's
hard to see the status of this person we
can only hope for the best obviously in
the good hands there of the fire
department the Pasadena Fire Department
and now going into that ambulance there
and we wish them the very best as we get
treatment and their consequence for
driving respecting the law obeying the
law going through a green light their
cars destroyed they'll be in the
hospital and the consequences they're
gonna have to encounter because of the
individuals stole that vehicle I mean
you wonder where is justice sometimes
the suspect goes to jail walks into jail
not injured you see this innocent victim
being transported to hospital no Gerty
all right Dennis I'm police specialist
as always we thank you so much for your
time and for lending your perspective
this latest pursuit here ending at
Orange Grove in Holly and Pasadena above
the 210 one grand theft auto suspect
taken into custody ending in a t-bone
crash at this intersection and one
person now being taken to the hospital
got to think that this intersection will
be closed for a bit of time as they
clean up what they need to clean up and
investigate what they need to
investigate Fox 11 News here at 5:00
p.m. continues wouldn't take a quick
break we'll be right back
you